Android is a Linux-based OS designed for portable devices such as smartphones and tablets. 

It is a stack of software components categorized into six sections (System Apps, Java AP Framework, Native C/C++ Libraries, Android Runtime, Hardware Abstraction Layer (HAL), and Linux kernel) and five layers.

▪ System Apps All Android system applications are at the top layer. 

Any app developed should fit into this layer. 

Some standard applications that come pre-installed with every Android device include dialer, email, calendar, camera, SMS messaging, web browsers, contact managers, and so on. Most Android apps are “written” in Java.

▪ Java API Framework
Android platform functions are made available to developers through APIs written in Java. 

The application framework offers many high-level services to applications, which developers incorporate in their development.

Some of the application framework blocks are as follows: 
o Content Providers—Manages data sharing between applications. 

o View System—For developing lists, grids, text boxes, buttons, and so on. 

o Activity Manager—Controls the activity life cycle of applications. o Location Manager—Manages location using GPS or cell towers.

o Package Manager—Keeps track of the applications installed on the device. 

o Notification Manager—Helps applications display custom messages in a status bar.


▪ Native C/C++ Libraries 

The next layer comprises the native libraries. Libraries are “written” in C or C++ and are specific to particular hardware.

This layer allows the device to control different types of data. The native libraries are as follows: 

o WebKit and Blink—web browser engine to display HTML content 
o Open Max AL—companion API to OpenGL ES but used for multimedia (video and audio) rather than audio only
o Libc—Comprises System C libraries
o Media Framework—provides media codecs that allow recording and playback of different media formats
o Open GL | ES—2D and 3D graphics library o Surface Manager—meant for display management 
o SQLite—database engine used for data storage purposes o FreeType—meant for rendering fonts


▪ Android Runtime It includes core libraries and the ART virtual machine.

o Android Runtime (ART): 
For Android versions beyond 5.0, apps have their own runtime processes and instances. 
Android runtime has features such as ahead-of-time (AOT) compilation, just-in-time (JIT) compilation, optimized garbage collection (GC), and Dalvik Executable format (DEX) files to compress machine code.

o Core Libraries: The set of core libraries allows developers to write Android applications using Java.


 Hardware Abstraction Layer
The hardware abstraction layer is used to expose the device’s hardware capabilities to the Java API framework that resides at a higher level. 

It acts as an abstraction layer between the hardware and the software stack. 

HAL comprises various modules that are required for the hardware equipment in the device, such as audio, camera, Bluetooth, sensors, and so on.










