Camera/Microphone Capture

Attacks With the proliferation of personal devices’ usage with the Internet connection, many significant security concerns are being emerged alongside their benefits. 

Attackers are trying to launch sophisticated attacks on digital users to gain unauthorized access to their devices and steal sensitive data or compromise the device.

The following are two different attacking methods attackers often employ to compromise camera and micro phones of the devices


Camfecting Attack
A camfecting attack is a webcam capturing attack. 

In this attack, the attacker gains access to the camera of a target’s computer or mobile device. 

The attacker infects the target device with a remote access Trojan (RAT) and compromises it to access the victim’s camera and microphone.

An attacker can also disable the camera light to avoid detection. 

Using this method, the attacker can obtain sensitive data such as personal photos, recorded videos, and the location of the user. 

Further, the attacker can control the camera from remote areas.

Steps Involved in Camfecting Attack 
▪ The attacker either sends a phishing mail with a malicious link or lures the victim into visiting a malicious website.

▪ When the victim clicks on the malicious link or visits the malicious website, malware is downloaded and installed on the device, providing remote access to the attacker.

▪ Now, the attacker can capture personal data such as photos and videos.


Android Camera Hijack Attack
Attackers attempt to leverage Google’s camera application, which is widely used in Android devices as the default camera app.

An attacker can exploit Android’s multiple security bypass vulnerabilities to circumvent the required permissions and gain access to the victim’s camera and microphone.

Further, the attacker can exploit this vulnerability even if the mobile device is locked.

Android camera applications generally require storage permissions to store photos and videos Such storage permissions provide unrestricted access to the entire internal storage and allow attackers to perform various activities 

such as capturing photos; recording videos and voice calls; and accessing stored photos, videos, GPS locations, and other sensitive information


Steps Involved in Android Camera Hijack Attack
Attackers exploit various bypass vulnerabilities on the target Android device by tricking the victim into downloading a malicious app. 

The malicious app installs a Trojan on the victim’s device without their knowledge. 

When the victim starts using the infected application, a persistent connection is established between the victim and attacker.

Even if the victim closes the application, the connection persists, allowing attackers to capture photos and record videos stealthily


Camera/Microphone Hijacking Tools 
▪ StormBreaker 
Attackers use the StormBreaker tool for social engineering by capturing the camera/microphone.

The tool can access the device’s location, webcam, and microphone without explicitly requesting any permissions












